---
layout: post
title: On Jekyll
categories: jekyll
date: 2017-09-24 13:40:44 -0500
---
When you're a developer, and you take a job in sales (or management, or whatever), it's important to pick something so you can stay fresh. Whatever it looks like, being away from coding for months or years is a bad idea.

One of the things that I did was build my own CMS. I had one that replaced Blogger - though it used an Access database, which is its own set of problems - and I recently put one together that combined a few technologies I wanted to use.

* Markdown - I've been a huge fan of Markdown forever, and I far prefer writing in Markdown to writing in HTML, or in Word, or in Outlook.
* Devops / CI - it's so easy these days to set up a job on a server that checks out your source code, runs a build, switches your configuration, and pushes it to your server. When you're working on a side project, it's great to be able to work on *the thing* instead of *deploying* the thing.
* Bootstrap / responsive - I am not an HTML developer, but it's useful to know how design has changed and what frameworks are capable of.

So when someone mentioned Jekyll, a CMS that taps into pretty much all of the above, I was excited. Here's what excites me:

* **Write in Markdown, and have it converted to HTML on the fly.** My solution, of course, translated `.md` files in realtime (with some caching, so it wasn't happening on every page load), but Jekyll makes totally static pages. The "build" creates a static website, which is fine by me.
* **Check into Github, and they can host your site.** Github Sites are just Jekyll sites. They do the build for you, and host your HTML, but that's one step I don't need to automate.
* **Seriously, just put a Markdown doc into Github when you want to post.** It will be weird to write for the web "offline" but it's totally possible now.
* **It's Ruby, but not obnoxiously so.** As I said, it creates static pages, so you don't have to worry about the code if you don't want. But when you want to build things, Ruby is something I've been excited to learn about.
* **It's been easy for me to set up a local dev environment and watch the moving parts.** There are easy-to-use themes, but you're going to have to create your own templates and styles, so it's great to be able to understand how that all plugs together. (I'm troubleshooting a VS build right now - one that's fine on a developer machine, but not on the build server - that's much less self-explanatory.)

Lots of these things remind me of what I was building, but it's nice to find that a lot of it is already built - and built well.
